README.md, before:

<p align="center">
<img alt="Redox" height="120" src="https://github.com/redox-os/assets/raw/master/logo.png">
</p>

**Redox** is an operating system written in Rust, a language with focus on safety and high performance. Redox, following the microkernel design, aims to be secure, usable, and free. Redox is inspired by previous kernels and operating systems, such as SeL4, Minix, Plan 9, and BSD.

Redox _is not_ just a kernel, it's a full-featured Operating System, providing packages (memory allocator, file system, display manager, core utilities, etc.) that together makes up a functional and convenient operating system. You can loosly think of it as the GNU or BSD ecosystem, but in a memory safe language and with modern technology. See [this list](#ecosystem) for overview of the ecosystem.

The website can be found at https://www.redox-os.org.

Please make sure you use the **latest nightly** of `rustc` before building (for more troubleshooting, see ["Help! Redox won't compile!"](#compile-help)).

[![Travis Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/redox-os/redox.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/redox-os/redox)
[![MIT licensed](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](./LICENSE.md)

## Contents

* [What it looks like](#what-it-looks-like)
* [Ecosystem](#ecosystem)
* [Help! Redox won't compile](#compile-help)
* [Contributing to Redox](#contributing)
* [Cloning, Building and running](#cloning-building-running)
 * [Quick Setup](#quick-setup)
 * [Manual Setup](#manual-setup)

## <a name="what-it-looks-like"> What it looks like </a>

<img alt="Redox" height="150" src="https://github.com/redox-os/assets/raw/master/screenshots/Desktop.png">
<img alt="Redox" height="150" src="https://github.com/redox-os/assets/raw/master/screenshots/Fancy_opacity.png">
<img alt="Redox" height="150" src="https://github.com/redox-os/assets/raw/master/screenshots/File_manager.png">

<img alt="Redox" height="150" src="https://github.com/redox-os/assets/raw/master/screenshots/Sodium_v1.png">
<img alt="Redox" height="150" src="https://github.com/redox-os/assets/raw/master/screenshots/Boot.png">
<img alt="Redox" height="150" src="https://github.com/redox-os/assets/raw/master/screenshots/start.png">

## <a name="ecosystem"> Ecosystem </a>

The ecosystem and software Redox OS provides is listed below.

| Name (lexiographic order)                                                   | Maintainer
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------
| [Ion (shell)](https://github.com/redox-os/ion)                              | [**@skylerberg**](https://github.com/skylerberg) & [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [RANSID](https://github.com/redox-os/ransid)                                | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [Sodium (editor)](https://github.com/redox-os/sodium)                       | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [Standard library](https://github.com/redox-os/libstd)                      | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [TFS (filesystem)](https://github.com/ticki/tfs)                            | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [The Redox book](https://github.com/redox-os/book)                          | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [The old kernel](https://github.com/redox-os/old)                           | abandoned
| [ZFS](https://github.com/redox-os/zfs)                                      | abandoned, superseded by TFS
| [acid tests](https://github.com/redox-os/acid)                              | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51) (co.: [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki), [**@nilset](https://github.com/nilset))
| [binutils](https://github.com/redox-os/binutils)                            | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [bots (other internal bots)](https://github.com/redox-os/bots)              | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [cookbook](https://github.com/redox-os/cookbook)                            | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [coreutils](https://github.com/redox-os/coreutils)                          | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki) (co.: [**@stratact**](https://github.com/stratact))
| [extrautils](https://github.com/redox-os/extrautils)                        | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [games](https://github.com/redox-os/games)                                  | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [kernel](https://github.com/redox-os/kernel)                                | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [libextra](https://github.com/redox-os/libextra)                            | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [libpager](https://github.com/redox-os/libpager)                            | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [magnet (future package manager)](https://github.com/redox-os/magnet)       | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [netutils](https://github.com/redox-os/netutils)                            | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [orbclient](https://github.com/redox-os/orbclient)                          | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [orbdata](https://github.com/redox-os/orbdata)                              | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [orbital](https://github.com/redox-os/orbital)                              | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [orbtk](https://github.com/redox-os/orbtk)                                  | [**@stratact**](https://github.com/stratact)
| [orbutils](https://github.com/redox-os/orbutils)                            | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [pkgutils (current package manager)](https://github.com/redox-os/pkgutils)  | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [playbot (internal REPL bot)](https://github.com/redox-os/platbot)          | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [ralloc](https://github.com/redox-os/ralloc)                                | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [redoxfs (old filesystem)](https://github.com/redox-os/redoxfs)             | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [syscall](https://github.com/redox-os/syscall)                              | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [userutils](https://github.com/redox-os/userutils)                          | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)

## <a name="compile-help"> Help! Redox won't compile! </a>

Sometimes things go wrong when compiling. Try the following before opening an issue:

1. Run `make clean`.
2. Run `git clean -X -f -d`.
3. Make sure you have **the latest version of Rust nightly!** ([rustup.rs](https://www.rustup.rs) is recommended for managing Rust versions).
4. Update **GNU Make**, **NASM** and **QEMU/VirtualBox**.
5. Pull the upstream master branch (`git remote add upstream git@github.com:redox-os/redox.git; git pull upstream master`).
6. Update submodules (`git submodule update --recursive --init`).

and then rebuild!

## <a name="contributing"> Contributing to Redox </a>

If you're interested in this project, and you'd like to help us out, [here](CONTRIBUTING.md) is a list of ways you can do just that.

## <a name="cloning-building-running"> Cloning, Building, and Running </a>

Redox is big (even compressed)! So cloning Redox takes a lot of bandwidth, and (depending on your data plan) can be costly, so clone at your own risk!

### <a name="quick-setup" /> Quick Setup </a>

```bash
$ cd path/to/your/projects/folder/

# Run bootstrap setup
$ curl -sf https://raw.githubusercontent.com/redox-os/redox/master/bootstrap.sh -o bootstrap.sh && bash -e bootstrap.sh

# Build Redox
$ make all

# Launch using QEMU
$ make qemu
# Launch using QEMU without using KVM (Kernel Virtual Machine). Try if QEMU gives an error.
$ make qemu kvm=no
```

#### QEMU with KVM

To use QEMU with KVM (kernel-based virtual Machine), which is faster than without KVM, you need a CPU with Intel® Virtualization Technology (Intel® VT) or AMD Virtualization™ (AMD-V™) support. Most systems have this disabled in the BIOS by default, so you may need to reboot and enable the feature in the BIOS.

### <a name="manual-setup"> Manual Setup </a>

To manually clone, build and run Redox using a Linux host, run the following commands (with exceptions, be sure to read the comments):
```bash
$ cd path/to/your/projects/folder/

# HTTPS
$ git clone https://github.com/redox-os/redox.git --origin upstream --recursive
# SSH
$ git clone git@github.com:redox-os/redox.git --origin upstream --recursive

$ cd redox/

# Install/update dependencies
$ sudo <your package manager> install make nasm qemu libfuse-dev

# Install rustup.rs
$ curl https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh

# Set override toolchain to nightly build
$ rustup override set nightly

# For successive builds start here. If this is your first build, just continue

# Update git submodules
$ git submodule update --recursive --init

# Build Redox
$ make all

# Launch using QEMU
$ make qemu
# Launch using QEMU without using KVM (Kernel Virtual Machine). Try if QEMU gives an error.
$ make qemu kvm=no
```

Commit message:

add additional dependencies for MacOS users (#749)

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
<img alt="Redox" height="120" src="https://github.com/redox-os/assets/raw/master/logo.png">
</p>

**Redox** is an operating system written in Rust, a language with focus on safety and high performance. Redox, following the microkernel design, aims to be secure, usable, and free. Redox is inspired by previous kernels and operating systems, such as SeL4, Minix, Plan 9, and BSD.

Redox _is not_ just a kernel, it's a full-featured Operating System, providing packages (memory allocator, file system, display manager, core utilities, etc.) that together makes up a functional and convenient operating system. You can loosly think of it as the GNU or BSD ecosystem, but in a memory safe language and with modern technology. See [this list](#ecosystem) for overview of the ecosystem.

The website can be found at https://www.redox-os.org.

Please make sure you use the **latest nightly** of `rustc` before building (for more troubleshooting, see ["Help! Redox won't compile!"](#compile-help)).

[![Travis Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/redox-os/redox.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/redox-os/redox)
[![MIT licensed](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](./LICENSE.md)

## Contents

* [What it looks like](#what-it-looks-like)
* [Ecosystem](#ecosystem)
* [Help! Redox won't compile](#compile-help)
* [Contributing to Redox](#contributing)
* [Cloning, Building and running](#cloning-building-running)
 * [Quick Setup](#quick-setup)
 * [Manual Setup](#manual-setup)

## <a name="what-it-looks-like"> What it looks like </a>

<img alt="Redox" height="150" src="https://github.com/redox-os/assets/raw/master/screenshots/Desktop.png">
<img alt="Redox" height="150" src="https://github.com/redox-os/assets/raw/master/screenshots/Fancy_opacity.png">
<img alt="Redox" height="150" src="https://github.com/redox-os/assets/raw/master/screenshots/File_manager.png">

<img alt="Redox" height="150" src="https://github.com/redox-os/assets/raw/master/screenshots/Sodium_v1.png">
<img alt="Redox" height="150" src="https://github.com/redox-os/assets/raw/master/screenshots/Boot.png">
<img alt="Redox" height="150" src="https://github.com/redox-os/assets/raw/master/screenshots/start.png">

## <a name="ecosystem"> Ecosystem </a>

The ecosystem and software Redox OS provides is listed below.

| Name (lexiographic order)                                                   | Maintainer
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------
| [Ion (shell)](https://github.com/redox-os/ion)                              | [**@skylerberg**](https://github.com/skylerberg) & [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [RANSID](https://github.com/redox-os/ransid)                                | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [Sodium (editor)](https://github.com/redox-os/sodium)                       | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [Standard library](https://github.com/redox-os/libstd)                      | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [TFS (filesystem)](https://github.com/ticki/tfs)                            | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [The Redox book](https://github.com/redox-os/book)                          | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [The old kernel](https://github.com/redox-os/old)                           | abandoned
| [ZFS](https://github.com/redox-os/zfs)                                      | abandoned, superseded by TFS
| [acid tests](https://github.com/redox-os/acid)                              | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51) (co.: [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki), [**@nilset](https://github.com/nilset))
| [binutils](https://github.com/redox-os/binutils)                            | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [bots (other internal bots)](https://github.com/redox-os/bots)              | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [cookbook](https://github.com/redox-os/cookbook)                            | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [coreutils](https://github.com/redox-os/coreutils)                          | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki) (co.: [**@stratact**](https://github.com/stratact))
| [extrautils](https://github.com/redox-os/extrautils)                        | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [games](https://github.com/redox-os/games)                                  | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [kernel](https://github.com/redox-os/kernel)                                | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [libextra](https://github.com/redox-os/libextra)                            | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [libpager](https://github.com/redox-os/libpager)                            | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [magnet (future package manager)](https://github.com/redox-os/magnet)       | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [netutils](https://github.com/redox-os/netutils)                            | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [orbclient](https://github.com/redox-os/orbclient)                          | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [orbdata](https://github.com/redox-os/orbdata)                              | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [orbital](https://github.com/redox-os/orbital)                              | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [orbtk](https://github.com/redox-os/orbtk)                                  | [**@stratact**](https://github.com/stratact)
| [orbutils](https://github.com/redox-os/orbutils)                            | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [pkgutils (current package manager)](https://github.com/redox-os/pkgutils)  | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [playbot (internal REPL bot)](https://github.com/redox-os/platbot)          | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [ralloc](https://github.com/redox-os/ralloc)                                | [**@ticki**](https://github.com/ticki)
| [redoxfs (old filesystem)](https://github.com/redox-os/redoxfs)             | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [syscall](https://github.com/redox-os/syscall)                              | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)
| [userutils](https://github.com/redox-os/userutils)                          | [**@jackpot51**](https://github.com/jackpot51)

## <a name="compile-help"> Help! Redox won't compile! </a>

Sometimes things go wrong when compiling. Try the following before opening an issue:

1. Run `make clean`.
2. Run `git clean -X -f -d`.
3. Make sure you have **the latest version of Rust nightly!** ([rustup.rs](https://www.rustup.rs) is recommended for managing Rust versions).
4. Update **GNU Make**, **NASM** and **QEMU/VirtualBox**.
5. Pull the upstream master branch (`git remote add upstream git@github.com:redox-os/redox.git; git pull upstream master`).
6. Update submodules (`git submodule update --recursive --init`).

and then rebuild!

## <a name="contributing"> Contributing to Redox </a>

If you're interested in this project, and you'd like to help us out, [here](CONTRIBUTING.md) is a list of ways you can do just that.

## <a name="cloning-building-running"> Cloning, Building, and Running </a>

Redox is big (even compressed)! So cloning Redox takes a lot of bandwidth, and (depending on your data plan) can be costly, so clone at your own risk!

### <a name="quick-setup" /> Quick Setup </a>

```bash
$ cd path/to/your/projects/folder/

# Run bootstrap setup
$ curl -sf https://raw.githubusercontent.com/redox-os/redox/master/bootstrap.sh -o bootstrap.sh && bash -e bootstrap.sh

# Build Redox
$ make all

# Launch using QEMU
$ make qemu
# Launch using QEMU without using KVM (Kernel Virtual Machine). Try if QEMU gives an error.
$ make qemu kvm=no
```

#### QEMU with KVM

To use QEMU with KVM (kernel-based virtual Machine), which is faster than without KVM, you need a CPU with Intel® Virtualization Technology (Intel® VT) or AMD Virtualization™ (AMD-V™) support. Most systems have this disabled in the BIOS by default, so you may need to reboot and enable the feature in the BIOS.

### <a name="manual-setup"> Manual Setup </a>

To manually clone, build and run Redox using a Linux host, run the following commands (with exceptions, be sure to read the comments):
```bash
$ cd path/to/your/projects/folder/

# HTTPS
$ git clone https://github.com/redox-os/redox.git --origin upstream --recursive
# SSH
$ git clone git@github.com:redox-os/redox.git --origin upstream --recursive

$ cd redox/

# Install/update dependencies
$ sudo <your package manager> install make nasm qemu

# Additional dependencies for Linux Users
$ sudo <your package manager> install libfuse-dev

# Additional dependencies for MacOS Users
# Download and Install OSFuse: https://github.com/osxfuse/osxfuse/releases
$ sudo <your package manager> install pkg-config x86_64-elf-gcc
# Note: `x86_64-elf-gcc` does not seem to be available via homebrew

# Install rustup.rs
$ curl https://sh.rustup.rs -sSf | sh

# Set override toolchain to nightly build
$ rustup override set nightly

# For successive builds start here. If this is your first build, just continue

# Update git submodules
$ git submodule update --recursive --init

# Build Redox
$ make all

# Launch using QEMU
$ make qemu
# Launch using QEMU without using KVM (Kernel Virtual Machine). Try if QEMU gives an error.
$ make qemu kvm=no
```
