.TH "SDL_VideoInfo" "3" "Tue 11 Sep 2001, 23:01" "SDL" "SDL API Reference" 
.SH "NAME"
SDL_VideoInfo \- Video Target information
.SH "STRUCTURE DEFINITION"
.PP
.nf
\f(CWtypedef struct{
  Uint32 hw_available:1;
  Uint32 wm_available:1;
  Uint32 blit_hw:1;
  Uint32 blit_hw_CC:1;
  Uint32 blit_hw_A:1;
  Uint32 blit_sw:1;
  Uint32 blit_sw_CC:1;
  Uint32 blit_sw_A:1;
  Uint32 blit_fill;
  Uint32 video_mem;
  SDL_PixelFormat *vfmt;
} SDL_VideoInfo;\fR
.fi
.PP
.SH "STRUCTURE DATA"
.TP 20
\fBhw_available\fR
Is it possible to create hardware surfaces?
.TP 20
\fBwm_available\fR
Is there a window manager available
.TP 20
\fBblit_hw\fR
Are hardware to hardware blits accelerated?
.TP 20
\fBblit_hw_CC\fR
Are hardware to hardware colorkey blits accelerated?
.TP 20
\fBblit_hw_A\fR
Are hardware to hardware alpha blits accelerated?
.TP 20
\fBblit_sw\fR
Are software to hardware blits accelerated?
.TP 20
\fBblit_sw_CC\fR
Are software to hardware colorkey blits accelerated?
.TP 20
\fBblit_sw_A\fR
Are software to hardware alpha blits accelerated?
.TP 20
\fBblit_fill\fR
Are color fills accelerated?
.TP 20
\fBvideo_mem\fR
Total amount of video memory in Kilobytes
.TP 20
\fBvfmt\fR
\fIPixel format\fR of the video device
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
This (read-only) structure is returned by \fI\fBSDL_GetVideoInfo\fP\fR\&. It contains information on either the \&'best\&' available mode (if called before \fI\fBSDL_SetVideoMode\fP\fR) or the current video mode\&.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fI\fBSDL_PixelFormat\fR\fR, \fI\fBSDL_GetVideoInfo\fP\fR
.\" created by instant / docbook-to-man, Tue 11 Sep 2001, 23:01
